now on the lengthening which is the next
piece we're gonna look at we say the
horse should cover more ground so if you
went across the diagonal I think this is
a helpful exercise sometimes and just
did your regular working trot and said
it takes 15 strides to get from point A
to point B now I'm gonna lengthen oh
that was so 15 strides right okay so you
want to you want to say I can do it in
13 strikes all right
so covering more ground that means the
horse should have longer strides not
faster strikes because we see some at
first level very interesting
interpretations of lengthening I think
some of these children are getting to
get shaken baby syndrome trying to sit
but that's right okay you can poster you
can sit now even at first level it would
be great if we can see two transitions
one at the beginning and one at the end
we hardly ever at first saw we'll see
anybody at the end do anything okay and
remember our pendulum okay at first
level it's only doing this okay so you
don't we know you can't lengthen a lot
but we know you can come back some
alrighty okay so can we do this one at a
time I'll talk a little bit I'll tell
you what I'm doing score wise
so the turn in the approach is a
modifier to the circle so let me see the
hot just going right a little bit of
he's not turning now she did that in the
show go back and start over but if she
did that in the show ring and went back
and started over I have to judge the
first attempt which is going to be a low
score and give her an error so if you
want do-overs be ready to pay the price
you might discuss a little counter
flexing to prepare for that seven okay
so he tripped a little bit but the trots
quite nice it's fluid she has enough
Bend finishes on center line so if you
want to be mean and say it tripped but
otherwise is seven the leg yield has
crossing but he's starting to lean and
the truck didn't see quite regular okay
so it's six
I would say modest something happened
but not much six okay
so Aaron just stay trotting keep
trotting and come down to Ian let's do
the stretchy chewy do another circle do
a stretchy chewy at E and we have some
discussion on this the horse needs to go
forward and downward maintaining the
contact now Aaron that looked like a
submarine
okay that was what we would call it
gravity stretch she let go of the reins
and because it's head weighs more than
anything in his body
it went falling down okay it was not
really on an aid and then you could see
the reins getting Li pick him up and try
it once more
so for me that that's a problem that's
not that's not what we're looking for
go back the other way go back through
the shorten and come try it once more
so it's forward downward maintaining
contact if the horse goes a little
behind a vertical I don't care I sort of
almost feel like the horse has to do a
little behind the vertical to let his
back go and there are some people say oh
that's impossible well that's fine they
can argue all day long but I do think
the purse has to and seats it's it's not
not happening
the reins are looping he's diving so for
me that's is not quite as bad as the
people at his head straight up but I
wouldn't give it more than a five okay
okay so Erin that's your homework is
that striped circle
can g1 do the same thing and after the
lengthening do the stretch so if Aaron
came to me afterwards and said am I
ready to go to second level I would say
no okay you need to work a little bit
more
it's a good turn on the centerline
second half of the circles better than
the first half tempo was a little
hurried at the beginning of seven seven
there's enough good things a trot stayed
the same the angle varied a little bit
so you can see the worst skin on the
forehand and get wide behind in the
lengthening so still a six but with the
comment for me that this is going to
create big problems at medium tribe
so she goes out a little bit more than
she goes down oh she says oh you want
that okay so the the last quarter was
actually the best part but if she if she
did that in the show it still stick give
us six and just say it goes out needs to
go more downwards the widening and the
trot sometimes it's a strength issue
just sometimes it's a balance usually
it's a balance live strength issue
sometimes those stallions it's a learned
behavior you know I have to be careful
as a judge that I don't that I don't say
that's because of this because you know
I don't really know I see the horse for
six minutes so I just have to put down
my reflections I have to say that horse
is wide behind and so I'm not giving
more than a six and then I have to hope
that she has a trainer that will read
the test and you know take care of it
okay so I think it's judges we have to
be a little bit careful what we say
sometimes because if I said something
that needs to go more forward for better
balance that would probably only make it
worse you know so we have to be careful
do you want to do a little work with
them yep